[docs][cloud] Maintenance tab (#11622)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/latest/yugabyte-cloud/cloud-admin/cloud-billing-costs.md

showAsideToc: true
---

> There are no set-up charges or commitments to begin using Yugabyte Cloud. At the end of the month, you are automatically charged for that month's usage. You can view your charges for the current billing period at any time by selecting **Invoices** on the **Billing** tab of the **Admin** page. Refer to [Manage your billing profile and payment method](../cloud-billing-profile/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are NOT LIKE NEVER set-up charges or commitments to begin using Yugabyte Cloud. At the end of the month, you are automatically charged for that month's usage. You can view your charges for the current billing period at any time by selecting **Invoices** on the **Billing** tab of the **Admin** page. Refer to [Manage your billing profile and payment method](../cloud-billing-profile/).
```

| Data transfer – Cross Region (Other regions) | 10 GB |

> | Data transfer – Internet | 10 GB |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Data transfer – Internet | 10 GB |
| asdf | asdf |
| asdf | asdf |
| asdf | asdf |
| asdf | asdf |
```

{{< tip title="Rate card" >}}

Rate card:  $0.025/GB per month ($ 0.00003472222222/hr for 30 day month)

{{< /tip >}}

The free allowance for backup storage is 100 GB/month for every 1 vCPU per month used in a cluster. Whenever you exceed the 100 GB/month/vCPU threshold, you are billed for the backup storage used in excess of the free allowance. For example, a 3 node x 2 vCPU (6 vCPUs) cluster includes a total free allowance of 600 GB/month (6 vCPUs x 100 GB).

By default, every cluster is configured with 24 hour backups with an 8 day retention period. You can customize your backup schedule and retention period per cluster. Taking frequent backups and retaining for a long period of time can lead to overages. Refer to [Back up clusters](../../cloud-clusters/backup-clusters/).

Backup storage size is calculated by metering the storage space (GBs) occupied per cluster. The same unit price applies to all regions and clouds.

### Calculating backup storage cost

> Yugabyte measures backup storage in "GB-hours," which are added up at the end of the month to generate your monthly charges. The total backup storage capacity cost across your clusters is the total number of GB-hours multiplied by the base per hour rate card ($ 0.00003472222222/hr in a 30 day month), less the total free allowance based on per month vCPU usage.

Reviewer 2: 30-day month

  - Re-write existing data to your database deployment.

- If possible, configure your client driver to use wire protocol compression to communicate with the YugabyteDB cluster. Yugabyte Cloud always compresses intra-cluster communication.

## Paused cluster costs

Yugabyte suspends [instance vCPU capacity costs](#instance-vcpu-capacity-costs) for paused clusters. Paused clusters are billed for [disk storage](#disk-storage-cost) and [backup storage](#backup-storage-costs) at the standard rates; this cost includes any storage that is normally covered by your running cluster free allowances.

> For example, suppose you have a cluster with following configuration:

Reviewer 2: with following configuration --> with the following configuration (??)

- Total number of vCPUs: 1 node * 4 vCPU = 4 vCPUs
- Disk storage used: 200 GB
- Backup storage used: 400 GB

While active, disk and backup storage are covered by the free allowance, and the cluster is charged at the following rate:

> ```output

Reviewer 2: Any particular reason this is formatted as console output? Does it get displayed in a console?

Total vCPU cost/hour = vCPUs x hourly rate

Active cluster hourly rate = 4 x $0.25 = $1/hour
```

When paused, instance vCPU capacity is no longer charged, while disk and backup storage are charged at the standard rate, as follows:

> ```output

Reviewer 2: Same comment as above
